Before I go any further I think I'd like to move this guy up off the grid here.
He's sitting in the middle of the grid.
And I think I'm just going to select both pieces and move them up and try and get a sense.
I kind of like to have things sitting or standing on the grid here and I'm going to try and get a sense
of maybe how tall this guy would be.
I don't know maybe he's going to be about like this something like that.
So the legs will come off here and come down to the ground.
Maybe a little bit taller.
And of course this can change but as I go forward I kind of like to see it in proportion with the ground
plane here.
All right so let's work on the arm.
Now that I've moved this up my pivot point has moved or my 3D cursor is stayed where it was.
And actually I'm going to need that to insert the shoulder joint onto this extruded piece here so to
move that pivot point again I'm going to tab.
I'm going to select the body and tab into edit mode and I think all I need to do is press control tab
and choose edge mode here and alt select this ring of edges around here.
And now I can just press shift s and move the cursor to selected.
So now this is where I'm going to place the next object I create.
So I'm going to tab back into object mode and go over to the Create tab and here I'll choose U-V sphere
and the U-V sphere pops into where the 3D cursor is.
So I'll hit the s key and scale down I will press the period key on the number pad to zoom in.
And I think I'm going to want this to be out a little bit more so it isn't overlapping there might be
something like that.
And keep in mind once I get these main pieces in like the body and the arms and the legs then I'll go
back and refine them.
I'm just trying to get the basic shapes down first.
In addition what I'm doing is I'm modeling things on one side of the character here or one side of the
object.
And when I've got it the way I want it I'm going to mirror what I've done on one side over to the other
side using the mirror modifier.
Actually before we create anything new I think I better go through and clean this up a bit just so I
know what is what.
So like for the body I'm going to select that and call this main body over here in the outliner and
this piece I can call.
What do you think we should call that cockpit glass maybe do that.
And for this sphere I'll call this shoulder joint.
Just for now.
These are probably temporary names but as I create new pieces here it can get confusing as to what is
what.
So now let's create a cylinder for that upper arm.
So I'll go over here to the Create tab and press cylinder and that pops into the scene at the point
of 3D cursor for the number of vertices we don't really need 32 probably but 12 would probably be a
good number in terms of the cap filled type we probably don't need anything on that right now so I'll
just choose nothing.
I will scale this down a bit and begin moving this into place.
So for the top part by the shoulder joint I think what I want to do is rotate this into place.
And what might make it easier for me is if the manipulators here were based instead of on the world
space were based on the local space of the object itself.
In other words as I rotate this you can see the rotate tool remains straight up and down remains along
the world axis or global axis.
I can come down here and change this from global to local and that will change the axis of movement.
So it's based on the object and not the world.
So if I go to the move tool you can see that it too now is aligned to the object.
This can be helpful for placing objects like this.
And what I'm trying to do is just place it right on that sphere.
It doesn't need to be perfect right now.
We'll clean it up and make a better connection here coming up.
But for right now I'll go into edit mode and choose edges and I'll alter select this whole edge.
I think I'll scale it in just a little bit like so so it'll fit kind of over that sphere now that I've
done that I want to I want to bring this edge down a bit to where the elbows should be.
And it looks like in my drawings the elbows should be about the middle of the cockpit here.
So what I'll do is tab into edit mode and alt select this ring of edges and with the move tool I'll
just bring it straight down like so now in my drawing it looks like it flares in a bit.
So for now I think that'll work pretty well as we're blocking this in.
Let's go ahead and create now an elbow joint for the arm.
Once again I'm going to go into edit mode and what I'll do is alt select this edge here and now let's
move the 3-D cursor to this selection by pressing shift s cursor to selected and now if I tab back into
object mode I can come over here to the Create tab and click on U-V sphere and it's huge of course but
we can hit the key and scale it down and fit it right in here and once again we can create a cylinder
from here it will pop in to where the 3D cursor is.
So I'll hit cylinder and if we look at the reference image this one really flares out a lot.
So I'm going to try and get that flayer there on the forearm so I'll scale this down and begin moving
it into place.
Maybe I'll take this edge here at the top and scale it down with the King I'm going to select this edge
and go to the scale tool and maybe flatten it up just a bit so it's wide here and a little bit thinner
from the front view.
One thing I would like to do is give a bit of a curve to this as it comes back toward the fingers.
If I zoom in here what I'd like to do is I'd like to take this edge and flatten it in just a little
bit more here and then I'm going to insert an edge loop and to insert an edge loop I'm going to press
control r and it'll give me this kind of ghost image of I have an edge loop and I'll click once with
the mouse.
And now I can drag this up and down to where I want to place it.
And I think I want to place it right about here and now and this kind of scale this out here and here.
So it kind of flares out a bit and then comes in toward the where the fingers will be kind of like that.
And I'll maybe even insert a new edge loop right up here and do a similar thing right here with a bit
of a flayer.
And before I move any further I may come back to the outliner here and clean this up some.
So once again I'll double click on one of these and I'll call this forearm and call this elbow joint.
And this can be our upper arm.
All right.
So let's work on the hands now of the hand.
I think what I'd like to do is place a sphere in here and then the fingers will be actually placed into
that sphere.
So let's try that.
I'm going to select the forearm go into Edit Mode alt select that edge and move the cursor with shift
yes to the selected area.
I'll tab back into object mode and let's create a sphere.
And then I'll scale it down with the Eski OK.
And with this I'll then select this edge and scale this in a bit as well.
So let's start working on the fingers here.
I think what I'm going to do is go to a brand new layer and just model these independently for now.
So I click on Layer 2 and that will hide the main body away here.
And then when press shift s and move the cursor to the center of the grid.
And now I think I'm just going to begin with a cube so I'll click on the cube in the create tab and
that will pop in.
I think I'll just move it up a bit.
From here I think I'll create a cylinder to be the joint between the fingers.
So let's go with cylinder.
You can see here in the ADD cylinder options panel here that we've got 32 vertices we don't need that
many.
I'm just going to have about 12 and instead of the fill type being gone what I'd like to do is change
this to triangle fan.
I want to rotate this around the x axis and rotate it this way and I want it exactly 90 degrees so I'll
press the end key to bring up the properties panel here and type 90 degrees and then scale this a bit
and I'm going to place this as a joint right by the finger here.
So I'll move this and move this over to the finger.
Now I want to see that this is right in line with this so what I'm going to do is first of all I'm going
to frame that cylinder up with the period key on the numpad and the next thing I want to do is press
the one key to go to the front view and then I'm going to press the five key to go to orthographic view.
So now I can see these objects in an orthographic view without any perspective.
So I'm going to scale this down just a bit something like this and place this right about here so that
this digit of the finger will rotate right around here.
Ultimately at that joint.
So I'm in a tumble around and then hit the 5 key to go back to perspective view and then I'm going to
go to the seven key and five key and look at it from the top.
And here I think I'll move this a bit like that and now I'm going to duplicate this object actually
before I do that I think I want to scale this would make it a little thicker like this.
There we go.
And to duplicate this object I'm just going to shift the and then click.
And now I can move the new object away from the old object there.
So maybe something like that.
So now I've got this piece with a joint in the middle there.
And one more thing.
One more thing actually let's create another cylinder and put in a cylinder right through the center
of these objects here.
So going to create a cylinder
rotated again around the x axis scale this down make it a little longer now as well.
And now here's another trick of the 3D cursor.
I'm going to select these two objects press shift s and bring that cursor to the selected objects.
So that puts it right in the center of those two objects.
Now going to grab this cylinder press shift s and select selection to cursor and that pops it right
into the center of those two objects.